[MUSIC]
Let's extend our understanding
of these statistical methods to
develop a forecast of website visits
based on social media mentions.
A scatter plot simply plots each
observation of our two variables,
social media mentions and
website visits, on a chart,
with social media mentions,
our independent variable, on the x-axis,
and website visits,
our dependent variable, on the y-axis.
It's a simple chart, and
forms the basis of our simple
linear regression-based forecast.
Let's create the plot now by selecting
both columns of the dataset.
Next, we'll click the Insert tab on
the ribbon and click the scatter icon.
From the list of scatter plot options,
let's select the first plot.
Excellent, let's cut the chart and paste
it back in our problem working sheet.
Let's also resize it slightly.
Now let's add a few elements to our
chart which will assist in our forecast.
First, let's add a linear trendline.
This linear trendline is the result
of linear regression on the dataset.
We will do this by clicking on the chart,
and then clicking the Design
tab on the ribbon.
Next, we'll click Add Chart Element and
select Trendline from the dropdown menu.
Lastly, we'll select linear
to add a linear trendline or
regression plot to the chart.
We see now that Excel
has drawn a trendline
across the scatter plot of our data.
This is the best fit line, or
the line which minimizes the distance from
it to each of the data points, on average.
Let's pause for a moment and
observe the trend.
Consistent with what we've
calculated in problem number 1A,
we see that, in general,
increases in social media mentions
result in increase web sites visits.
We know this because the trendline
is sloping upward to the right.
If we knew the equation of this trendline,
we could further describe the average
relationship between social media
mentions and website visits.
Excel makes this simple for
us to calculate and display on the chart.
Let's right-click on the trendline and
select format trendline.
In the format pane, click the checkboxes
next to Display Equation on chart,
and also Display R-squared value on chart.
You'll notice that this matches
the R-squared value that we previously
calculated.
Let's explore the equation of
the trendline to better understand
the relationship between social
media mentions and website visits.
Notice that the y-value is our
dependent variable, website visits,
and that the x-value is our independent
variable, social media mentions.
We can read this equation then as for
every 1x, or social media mention,
we observe 23 website visits,
plus some additional constant value,
which is not directly explained by
increases in social media mentions.
This constant value may be the number of
website visits we receive due to other
marketing efforts.
With approximately 23 visits for
every social media mention,
it would seem prudent for us to focus some
of our marketing efforts on social media.
Does this all seem a bit familiar?
It should.
You'll recall from algebra
that the 23 in our equation
is the slope of the trendline.
If we want to calculate the slope of
the trendline without creating a chart,
Excel offers its slope function.
Slope requires two parameters,
in this case,
the value of our two
variables in our dataset.
It's important to note that
slope requires the known y's,
in our case, website visits,
as its first parameter.
Let's parameterize slope with website
visits and social media mentions, and
set it to work.
We see that we've calculated the same
slope as the trendline equation above.
Isn't that great?
Remember the constant value
in the equation above?
This is the intercept of the trendline.
Said differently, this can be thought of
as the website visits we would obtain
with 0 social media mentions, as it is the
value of the equation when we set x to 0.
We can calculate the intercept
using Excel's intercept function.
Similar to slope, intercept requires
website visits as its first parameter,
with social media mentions as its second.
Let's set it to work and calculate
the intercepts, or constant term,
in our regression equation.
We can explain the resulting
2,140.54 value as the number of
websites visits we observe without
any social media mentions at all.
This constant term is not explained by
changes in the independent variable.
How can we use what we have
calculated thus far to produce
a forecast of the number of
website visits we should expect
if we have 100 social media mentions?
How about 1,500 social media mentions?
It should be intuitive by now that
we could look up these values for
social media mentions on the trendline and
determine that corresponding
website visits' value.
Let's do this formulaically
with Excel's forecast function.
Forecast requires, as parameters,
the value of the independent variable,
social media mentions in our case,
then our datasets, starting with
the dependent variable first.
Let's parameterize forecast and predict
how many website visits we could expect
with 100, and then 1,500 social
media mentions, respectively.
We see from our regression model
that we could expect approximately
4,500 website visits for
100 social media mentions, and
approximately 37,500 visits from
1,500 social media mentions.
Congratulations, you now understand
how to use simple linear regression
to develop a statistical
forecasting model.
A few notes before we
close out this module.
It's important to understand that our
regression model suggests that increases
in website visits tend to happen with
increases in social media mentions,
not that they happen because of
increases in social media mentions.
We could also, with care, use this
model to forecast website visits for
levels of social media mentions not
previously observed in our dataset.
Now it's your turn to demonstrate
your understanding of these concepts
in problem number 2B, and
the culminating exercise for the week.
Enjoy.
[MUSIC]